IX - TALES AND REVELATIONS
- AMICIA: These clothes feel so nice.
- HUGO: (YAWNS) Yes.
- AMICIA: Hey, come here, sleepyhead.
♪ (DREAMY MUSIC PLAYING) ♪
Come on, it's just the sun.
Look.
It's worth it.
- HUGO: Wow... it's...
Well... it's...
- AMICIA: Like a dream?
- HUGO: Yes.
Exactly like my dream.
- AMICIA: Quickly.
Let's eat something and get going.
Come on.
♪♪♪
- HUGO: Whoo hoo!
It's beautiful!
Can we go play?
- AMICIA: Hey... we're here to know why
you dreamt about this place, right?
- HUGO: Yes, let's go.
♪♪♪
- AMICIA: What a perfect weather
for exploration.
- HUGO: Yes.
Island explorers!
- AMICIA: Let's find the exit first.
♪♪♪
Wow... (CHUCKLES) Look at that!
- HUGO: It's so big!
- AMICIA: Now I'm couting on you, alright?
If you see anything.
- HUGO: Yes, I'll keep my eyes piled.
- AMICIA: "peeled" (CHUCKLES)
We say: "Keep my eyes peeled".
- HUGO: Oh!
That's horrible!
- AMICIA: It's... (CHUCKLES)
Yes... It's horrible.
- GUARD: This place
is for house personel only.
Sorry.
- HUGO: "House personel"?
- AMICIA: They're like our servants back home.
- GUARD: Sure. Enjoy the Brighter Days.
- SOPHIA: Slept well?
- HUGO: Sophia... Hi!
Nice to see you!
- AMICIA: How did you know?
- SOPHIA: *&%*&%$&.
That's my life, sweetheart.
Wake up early. Observe, listen,
and make the best of it.
That's how I discovered Arnaud is in jail.
- AMICIA: Yes, that bastard...
He betrayed us.
And worse, he used Hugo.
- SOPHIA: What kind of use could he make
of such a tiny creature?
Or...
Are you more useful
than you look like, little one?
- AMICIA: I'm not joking, Sophia!
Arnaud may be your friend
but he almost got us killed.
- SOPHIA: So you spend the night celebrating
his capture with the Count of Provence and his wife?
- AMICIA: No! I don't care about them!
I kneel to no Lords, Sophia.
No Count, no King, no one!
I only care about him.
- SOPHIA: Alright.
I hear enough then.
I was teasing you.
I'd just like to know who my friend really are.
And I like what I hear.
Come.
Let's take a walk.
- HUGO: Yes!
- SOPHIA: The island...
It's a map of the island.
- AMICIA: It's antique.
- SOPHIA: I'd say hundreds of years old.
Probably by ...?
There is a lot of those around here.
- HUGO: Look, Amicia!
There's the drawing!
- AMICIA: What drawing?
- HUGO: The drawing of the Order.
- AMICIA: Yes... I see it.
- SOPHIA: What order?
- AMICIA: A very ancient Order of Alchemist.
You overheard us on the boat, Sophia...
Hugo is sick.
It's not contagious.
Still, the Order wanted to lock him away
to do whatever they pleased.
But I...
- SOPHIA: But you kneel to no one.
I get it.
So... What do you come here looking for?
- AMICIA: Whatever can help him.
- SOPHIA: It's simple.
If this symbol...
...indicates important areas.
That one...
Well... That one is pretty hard to miss.
- HUGO: The teeth.
- SOPHIA: They're called ... - The Mothers.
- HUGO: Oh.
- SOPHIA: I know. Boring.
- AMICIA: It makes sense.
Let's go visit those Mothers then.
- HUGO: Those teeth.
Are you coming with us?
- SOPHIA: If you want me to.
I told you, I owe you.
- AMICIA: Come on, then.
- HUGO: Yes. We're gonna climb.
- SOPHIA: The view from up there
must be quite a sight.
- AMICIA: Oh... I can't wait to see it.
Up we go.
- HUGO: Alright.
Look!
There's a house in the teeth!
- AMICIA: Yes.
Some kind of... temple?
- SOPHIA: Sanctuary.
That's what I've heard it called.
And now I'm even more curious about it.
- SOPHIA: So we've got a magic bird...
An ancient Order of Alchemist...
The little one has visions...
(CHUCKLES) Well... just...
What else can I expect?
- AMICIA: Hugo's sickness is...
...special.
Our Mother is an alchemist
but she couldn't do anything about it.
It's almost like...
A curse.
- SOPHIA: Who could curse such a cute baby?
- HUGO: I'm not a baby!
- AMICIA: It's the bloodline.
This thing goes back to...
...the dawn of times.
It's unfair, but...
This is real, Sophia.
In Guyenne, the Inquisition came after us over this.
We barely made it here.
- HUGO: It was horrible.
They killed everybody.
- SOPHIA: Damn...
Alright.
We'll find what you came for.
You have my word.
- AMICIA: Thank you.
That's it. The path to the sanctuary.
- SOPHIA: So we're done here for now?
- AMICIA: Yes, let's go.
It's gonna be quite a walk.
- HUGO: First to the top!
- AMICIA: Hey, easy! I don't wanna carry you!
- HUGO: Chicken!
- AMICIA: (LAUGHS)
Are you tired? We've been walking a while.
- HUGO: It's not as high as it looks.
- SOPHIA: Don't be disappointed.
We're not there yet.
- AMICIA: (LAUGHS) Looks like
someone is more tired than you.
- SOPHIA: I don't like mountains.
Everything I need is at sea level.
- HUGO: I like mountains.
They're big and tall
so when you're on top of it...
You're big and tall too.
- AMICIA: You know,
it's his first time climbing one.
- SOPHIA: Well, in that case,
let's be big and tall together.
Damn, it's getting hot.
- HUGO: Look! We're almost at that sanctuary.
- SOPHIA: Do you know what "almost" means?
- AMICIA: Come on. It'll be worth the sweat.
Look at the size of it.
- SOPHIA: So what do you expect
to find up there?
- HUGO: I want to see the real bird.
The tree...
Or the pond!
- AMICIA: I prefer an elixir.
Something to really help you, Hugo.
- HUGO: Maybe the bird will have it.
Oh, it's spring water.
- SOPHIA: How can you run in this heat?
- AMICIA: Child's skill.
He can also fall asleep in a snap.
Hm... It looks so fresh.
- HUGO: It is.
- SOPHIA: Just what I need anyway.
- AMICIA: Hey, Hugo.
You have some dirt on your face.
- SOPHIA: I'll get it for you.
- HUGO: Ah... (LAUGHS)
Water attack!!!!!
- AMICIA: Hey! (LAUGHS)
- SOPHIA: Counter attack!
(LAUGHTERS)
- SOPHIA: Alright, alright, alright.
I yield. You soaked me to death.
- HUGO: I win!
(LAUGHTER)
- AMICIA: Our sailor defeated by water?
- SOPHIA: He shoved me in the eyes, alright?
- HUGO: I did it on purpose!
- AMICIA: (CHUCKLES) That's my brother!
- SOPHIA: Talk about a family.
- AMICIA: Well done, Hugo.
- SOPHIA: I'll have my revengee!!
- AMICIA: That sanctuary is huge!
- SOPHIA: Yas.
- HUGO: Oh... goats...
There are lots, Amicia.
- GOATKEEPER: Don't be scared!
- HUGO: Yes... But they scream!
- AMICIA: I'm here.
- SOPHIA: Well well well...
Our fierce warrior is afraid of goats?
- HUGO: There're too many!
- GOATKEEPER: You're heading
to the Child's sanctuary?
- AMICIA: We are.
- GOATKEEPER: Er...
I'm afraid you're too late.
They closed that gate, as you can see.
For the ceremony.
- AMICIA: The ceremony?
- SOPHIA: Aw... we came
all this way for the little one.
- GOATKEEPER: Er... well...
That goat path to the side
will take you closer.
But you'll have to look from afar.
The Count and Countess are up there and...
The guards are on edge since yesterday's mess.
They won't take kindly to uninvited guests.
- SOPHIA: We'll keep that in mind.
Thank you.
- GOATKEEPER: Ah by the way...
If you stumble on ...
Please, send it back here.
It is one of my goats.
- AMICIA: We'll try.
- GOATKEEPER: Good luck then.
- HUGO: I hope she wouldn't attack us.
- SOPHIA: Oh come on.
It's a goat not a wolf!
- HUGO: But they scream!
- AMICIA: Oh they do.
So they locked down the sanctuary.
Just our luck.
- SOPHIA: On the bright side, you don't lock
a place down if it doesn't hold something important.
- AMICIA: Yes... I'm even more curious now.
- HUGO: Listen...
Is that the goat he talked about?
- SOPHIA: ..., yes.
- HUGO: She's here.
- AMICIA: (CHUCKLES)
We should send you back to your owner.
- SOPHIA: Goat...
I stared in their eyes for hours
when I was a child.
You can't know what's going on in there.
- AMICIA: You may just not be ready
for their knowledge.
- SOPHIA: Wow... This is turning into
an actually rescue mission.
- HUGO: I really hope she's nice.
- AMICIA: I'm sure she'll be thankful.
In... her own way.
- HUGO: If she's not,
we'll lock her up again, won't we?
- AMICIA: Don't worry... You have
two strong women to protect you.
- HUGO: Hmm...
There's a hole in the wall.
- AMICIA: Huh... Hey.
Only you can do it.
- HUGO: Alright...
- SOPHIA: My hero!
- SOPHIA: Here's our fugitive.
- AMICIA: You saved her, Hugo.
Want to say a proper hello?
- HUGO: Hmm...
- AMICIA: I'll go with you.
- SOPHIA: You've done a difficult part.
Don't startle her and it'll be just fine.
- HUGO: What if she screams?
- SOPHIA: Screaming not biting.
Just say it to yourself: "It can happen."
And that's all.
- HUGO: I'll try.
- AMICIA: See? It's easy.
They don't all scream.
- HUGO: Yes.
She's nice.
- SOPHIA: Alright! She's saved.
You've overcome your fear.
And I want to see
that sanctuary. Let's go?
- HUGO: Yes. Go!
Your dad's waiting for you.
She's not moving.
- SOPHIA: She will. She's her own master.
- SOLDIER: Thank you for your offerings.
I'm sorry to push you out.
But the ceremony will begin soon.
- SOPHIA: Hmm... Soldier.
- WOMAN 1: Oh, no problem.
Make sure no trouble arises.
- WOMAN 2: Yes... We had enough violence yesterday.
- SOLDIER: We'll be especially careful.
Don't worry.
- AMICIA: Well, thank you, Arnaud!
- SOPHIA: That was to be expected.
- AMICIA: Climb up.
Up we go.
Careful with the drop here.
- HUGO: Alright.
- SOLDIER 1: What do we do
with the last offerings?
- SOLDIER 2: Let's stay here for now.
We'll bring it up there after the ceremony.
- AMICIA: (WHISPERS) Careful.
- SOPHIA: (WHISPERS) Looks like
they all really like their privacy here.
- AMICIA: (WHISPERS)
How will we cross that gate?
There's no way I can attack them.
We'll get jailed, or worse.
- HUGO: Oh... It's very high...
- SOPHIA: Oh... Wow...
- AMICIA: Stick to the wall. Keep going.
- HUGO: It makes me dizzy.
Oh NO!
- SOPHIA: Hey!
- AMICIA: Hugo!
- SOPHIA: Oh shit! Bloody hell!
- SOPHIA: I don't like your stunts, kid.
- HUGO: I want to go...
- AMICIA: Yes... Let's keep moving.
We're here. We made it.
You're alright, Hugo?
I'm sorry. I was... way too risky.
- HUGO: I'm better now.
- AMICIA: Thank you, Sophia!
- SOPHIA: It's nothing. It's just...
...my worst nightmare.
- AMICIA: We should walk a bit...
On solid ground.
- VICTOR: Friends and children.
Today marks the longest day of the year.
The light of the ... ...
shines upon us once again.
- EMILIE: And yet...
In these cold hallways...
Hidden from the sun.
But Child of Embers still slumbers.
- VICTOR: It is time
to bring the flame of the phoenix.
- HUGO: (WHISPERS) The phoenix.
- VICTOR: To his ...
- AMICIA: (WHISPERS)
That's your bird.
- EMILIE: Thus we will prove
that we deserve to care for him.
Like Mother.
- VICTOR: Like Father.
- EMILIE: Let us pray together,
before we enter.
- AMICIA: (WHISPERS) Come.
What do you think?
- SOPHIA: Bold, but believable.
- HUGO: Are we dressing up?
- VICTOR: Open your mind and heart.
It is now time to tell his tale.
- EMILIE: So that it is never forgotten.
- HUGO: (WHISPERS)
What do we do?
- AMICIA: (WHISPERS)
Let's follow them on our turn.
And do as they say.
They mustn't recognise us.
- HUGO: (WHISPERS) Yes.
- AMICIA: (WHISPERS) Come on.
- HUGO: (WHISPERS) Wow.
Amicia, look up there!
- AMICIA: (WHISPERS)
The symbol of the Order.
This place belongs to them.
- VICTOR: Centuries ago...
A child was born on this land.
His heart was blessed by the sun.
From which he inherited the flame
that rules everything.
And so was born the Child of Fire.
- AMICIA: (WHISPERS) What?
- EMILIE: His flame shone over the world.
He blessed it with his perfume.
His laughter, his joy.
- VICTOR: Of all places,
La Cuna was his home.
It become a land of life and peace.
A place to heal.
To thrive.
La Cuna became a cradle of light.
- EMILIE: But light tames evil...
- VICTOR: And evil knows no mercy.
- EMILIE: Come.
- AMICIA: (WHISPERS)
A child on a throne.
In an Order's temple.
- HUGO: (WHISPERS)
It's him. The Child of Embers.
- EMILIE: Take your place at our side.
- HUGO: (WHISPERS)
Look! The drawing.
- AMICIA: (WHISPERS)
It's the Carrier of the Macula.
That fresco was in Mother's laboratory at home.
- VICTOR: Please kneel.
Evil found the child inside these very halls.
It fed on his fire.
Weakened it.
Marked his flesh with cold black scars.
His mother's arms couldn't warm him anymore.
- EMILIE: And so his light faded.
Almost entirely.
And the Child of Fire turned
into the Child of Embers.
- AMICIA: (WHISPERS) Lord...
- EMILIE: A dark era began.
Men forgot about him.
But we did not.
This flame is the last gleam of his light.
Our hope.
And now, two of you.
A woman and a child...
...will carry it through his night.
You.
Your heads are bend.
Your humility honoures you.
You will walk his flame,
through his darkest ales.
Take it.
You will walk in his steps.
Note the cold that bites the flesh.
The drowning in the absence of light.
The uncertainty.
You will see the child died
through the eyes of his mother.
You will be the victim and the witness.
Keep that torch alive.
At all costs.
- VICTOR: The Carrier has been chosen.
Take your places.
- HUGO: (WHISPERS) What do we do?
- AMICIA: (WHISPERS)
We have to play along.
Let's... cross.
- EMILIE: Go forth and bring him the light.
Much depends on it.
- AMICIA: This is unreal!
- HUGO: Ah... It's cold.
- AMICIA: Those frescos...
The plague...
They think it was caused by the child's death.
So they don't have the Macula...
- AMICIA: I don't think so.
They interpreted all this.
They made him God.
Out of the Carrier of the Macula.
- HUGO: Amicia, the water
will put out the torch.
- AMICIA: I think... it's part of their ritual.
"Drowning in the absence of light."
- HUGO: I'm... cold.
- AMICIA: It's over, we'll soon warm up.
- HUGO: (COUGHS)
It was horrible!
- AMICIA: But you did it.
- HUGO: I though I was drowning.
- AMICIA: Calm down.
You're fine now.
- HUGO: No, I'm scared!
(GASPS)
- AMICIA: Just walk. I'm with you.
- VICTOR: You are back and the torch's gone.
You are not alone anymore.
- EMILIE: His embers glow in the dark.
I am the Mother and I welcome him.
Pass it to me.
You did well.
Hear me, child.
I am not ... anymore for your flame lives in me.
I am the Mother.
Become the phoenix.
The Child of Fire reborn.
- VICTOR: Join us. Blow on these flames.
- AMICIA: (GASPS)
- HUGO: (WHISPERS)
The phoenix... It's the phoenix!
- AMICIA: (WHISPERS)
Shhh... Yes... I see it.
- HUGO: (WHISPERS)
It's real... Even if it's the Order, it's all true.
- SOPHIA: (WHISPERS)
Hey, it's me.
- AMICIA: (WHISPERS) Sophia...
- SOPHIA: (WHISPERS)
Come, I found a passage back there.
It's now or never.
- EMILIE: May the breeze of life
we ignite his flame.
- AMICIA: This is unbelievable.
- SOPHIA: No kidding.
- AMICIA: A child's throne.
He... He lived here.
- SOPHIA: Their Child of Embers?
- AMICIA: There's no Child of Embers.
I told you about the Order.
This place belonged to them.
And this child... on the frescos...
It's the Carrier of the Prima Macula.
- SOPHIA: The Prima Macula?
This just gets better and better.
- AMICIA: Alchemists call it the First Corruption.
It awoken Hugo's blood when he's a baby.
It keeps growing inside him.
- SOPHIA: And it's killing him.
- AMICIA: That was the whole place is about.
The advent of the Carrier of the Macula.
The Order gathering around him, studying him.
Trying to find the solution.
And...
Rats.
Let me guess...
Death... War... Disease... Or farmine...
- AMICIA: Not only...
The rats are...
Anyway, they got it all wrong.
There's no Child of Embers...
That would come and save the world.
It's a fantasy.
They crafted to fit their hopes.
- SOPHIA: All of it sound like
a crazy fantasy to me.
- AMICIA: Part of it is true.
The part that can save him.
The only part that matters.
"Basilius and Aelia."
- HUGO: Nothing's changed.
That water's not magic.
- AMICIA: The water?
Oh! From the healing pond.
In your dream.
It's like a symbol.
Like Mother's... alchemic joints.
- SOPHIA: Stagnating water is rarely magic.
- AMICIA: Hey, come see.
That's his throne.
And this, I think, is his name.
- HUGO: "Basil..."
- AMICIA: He was a Carrier just like you.
You're not the only one.
That's why you dreamt of all this.
Something called you here,
and for good reason.
I mean look at this place...
If there's a cure, it has to be here.
- HUGO: And who is Aelia?
- SOPHIA: It looks like there's more
to this place, behind here.
- AMICIA: Let's keep looking.
Come, I'm sure there're
extraordinary things waiting.
- HUGO: Hmm...
- AMICIA: What's all this?
- SOPHIA: Are we...
the first to come in here?
- HUGO: Oh, a tent!
- AMICIA: You're right.
It looks untouched.
- SOPHIA: Too sacred for them, maybe?
- AMICIA: What is it?
- SOPHIA: Your alchemists wrote down
everything that happened to the Carrier.
It's sorted by date.
The last entry...
...was in the year...
five hundred and forty one.
- AMICIA: Five hundred and forty one...
What does it say?
- SOPHIA: I haven't studied Latin
since convern but...
It talks about Basilius.
And... er...
Hmm...
Aelias ..., his Protector.
- AMICIA: It really did all happen.
They were just like us.
- HUGO: What happened to them?
- SOPHIA: "The Order took away
the Carrier from her...
"She rebelled...
"And was arrested to...
close to... a round tower.
"... to....
Er... A capella...
A-A chapel.
Inside a fort.
- HUGO: And Basilius, where is he?
- SOPHIA: It doesn't say.
- AMICIA: Well, we have something to go on.
A fort... A round tower.
(DOOR OPENS)
- HUGO: They're coming.
- SOPHIA: We're lucky
they didn't come sooner.
- AMICIA: Yes, let's get out of here fast.
- SOPHIA: (WHISPERS) Through there.
- SOPHIA: Spending a full week
at sea with my crew.
Changes the notion of stench forever.
- AMICIA: That was enough for me.
Let's go to that fort.
Hugo?
- HUGO: There was no fort in my dream.
- AMICIA: Maybe... But your dream
put us in the right track.
Now we just have to find out the rest.
- SOPHIA: Don't you want to know
what happened to that Aelia?
And your... "ancestor"?
- AMICIA: It's going to be alright.
- HUGO: Erm... Can we take
these stinky clothes off now?
- AMICIA: Yes, we should.